.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature.md, before:

---
name: 🚀 Feature
about: Submit a proposal/request for a new feature
---

<!--
  Consider requesting the feature on https://docusaurus-2.netlify.com/feedback/ instead.
  Feature requests on v1 will not be accepted easily as we're focusing on building v2.
-->

## 🚀 Feature

(A clear and concise description of what the feature is.)

## Have you read the [Contributing Guidelines on issues](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#reporting-new-issues)?

(Write your answer here.)

## Motivation

(Please outline the motivation for the proposal.)

## Pitch

(Please explain why this feature should be implemented and how it would be used.)

<!--
  What happens if you skip this step?

  Someone will read your feature proposal and maybe will be able to help you,
  but it’s unlikely that it will get much attention from the team. Eventually,
  the issue will likely get closed in favor of issues that have better explanations

  Thanks for helping us help you!
-->

Commit message:

docs(v1): remove exclusive language (#1961)
* Initial commit to replace easy, easily, simple, just, of course

* Revert ordered list change

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature.md, after:

---
name: 🚀 Feature
about: Submit a proposal/request for a new feature
---

<!--
  Consider requesting the feature on https://docusaurus-2.netlify.com/feedback/ instead.
  Feature requests on v1 are more likely to be missed as we're focusing on building v2.
-->

## 🚀 Feature

(A clear and concise description of what the feature is.)

## Have you read the [Contributing Guidelines on issues](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#reporting-new-issues)?

(Write your answer here.)

## Motivation

(Please outline the motivation for the proposal.)

## Pitch

(Please explain why this feature should be implemented and how it would be used.)

<!--
  What happens if you skip this step?

  Someone will read your feature proposal and maybe will be able to help you,
  but it’s unlikely that it will get much attention from the team. Eventually,
  the issue will likely get closed in favor of issues that have better explanations

  Thanks for helping us help you!
-->
