website/docs/cli.md, before:

---
id: cli
title: CLI
---

Docusaurus provides a set of scripts to help you generate, serve, and deploy your website. 

Once your website is generated, your website package will contain the Docusaurus scripts that you may invoke with your package manager:

```json
// package.json
{
  // ...
  "scripts": {
    "start": "docusaurus start",
    "build": "docusaurus build",
    "swizzle": "docusaurus swizzle",
    "deploy": "docusaurus deploy"
  }
}
```

## Docusaurus CLI commands

Below is a list of Docusaurus CLI commands and their usages:

<!-- TODO: init docs after the init command is implemented

### `docusaurus init`

The `docusaurus init` command is intended to be used with `docusaurus` installed globally:

```shell
$ yarn global add docusaurus
# or
$ npm install --global docusaurus
```
-->

### `docusaurus start`

Builds and serves the static site with [Webpack Dev Server](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server).

**options**

|Options|Default|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`--port`|`3000`|Specifies the port of the dev server|
|`--host`|`localhost`|Specify a host to use. E.g., if you want your server to be accessible externally, you can use `--host 0.0.0.0`|
|`--hot-only`|`false`|Enables Hot Module Replacement without page refresh as fallback in case of build failures. More information [here](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/#devserverhotonly).|

### `docusaurus build`

Compiles your site for production.

**options**

|Options|Default|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`--bundle-analyzer`||Analyze your bundle with [bundle analyzer](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer)|


### `docusaurus swizzle`

Swizzle any Docusaurus Theme components with your own component with `docusaurus swizzle`.

```shell
$ docusaurus swizzle <themeName> [componentName] [siteDir]
```

**params**

- `themeName`: name of the theme you are using
- `swizzleComponent`: name of the component to be swizzled

Running the above command will copy the relevant theme files to your site folder. You may then make any changes to it and Docusaurus will use it instead of the one provided from the theme.

To unswizzle a component, simply delete the files of the swizzled component.

<!-- TODO a separate section for swizzle tutorial -->
To learn more about swizzling, check [here](#).

### `docusaurus deploy`

Deploys your site with [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/).

Commit message:

feat(v2): add ability disable to open page in browser when start command (#1856)
* feat(v2): add ability disable to open page in browser when start command

* Replace disable-open-browser with no-open

* Fixes

website/docs/cli.md, after:

---
id: cli
title: CLI
---

Docusaurus provides a set of scripts to help you generate, serve, and deploy your website. 

Once your website is generated, your website package will contain the Docusaurus scripts that you may invoke with your package manager:

```json
// package.json
{
  // ...
  "scripts": {
    "start": "docusaurus start",
    "build": "docusaurus build",
    "swizzle": "docusaurus swizzle",
    "deploy": "docusaurus deploy"
  }
}
```

## Docusaurus CLI commands

Below is a list of Docusaurus CLI commands and their usages:

<!-- TODO: init docs after the init command is implemented

### `docusaurus init`

The `docusaurus init` command is intended to be used with `docusaurus` installed globally:

```shell
$ yarn global add docusaurus
# or
$ npm install --global docusaurus
```
-->

### `docusaurus start`

Builds and serves the static site with [Webpack Dev Server](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server).

**options**

|Options|Default|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`--port`|`3000`|Specifies the port of the dev server|
|`--host`|`localhost`|Specify a host to use. E.g., if you want your server to be accessible externally, you can use `--host 0.0.0.0`|
|`--hot-only`|`false`|Enables Hot Module Replacement without page refresh as fallback in case of build failures. More information [here](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/#devserverhotonly).|
|`--no-open`|`false`|Do not open automatically the page in the browser.|

### `docusaurus build`

Compiles your site for production.

**options**

|Options|Default|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`--bundle-analyzer`||Analyze your bundle with [bundle analyzer](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer)|


### `docusaurus swizzle`

Swizzle any Docusaurus Theme components with your own component with `docusaurus swizzle`.

```shell
$ docusaurus swizzle <themeName> [componentName] [siteDir]
```

**params**

- `themeName`: name of the theme you are using
- `swizzleComponent`: name of the component to be swizzled

Running the above command will copy the relevant theme files to your site folder. You may then make any changes to it and Docusaurus will use it instead of the one provided from the theme.

To unswizzle a component, simply delete the files of the swizzled component.

<!-- TODO a separate section for swizzle tutorial -->
To learn more about swizzling, check [here](#).

### `docusaurus deploy`

Deploys your site with [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/).
