website/docs/deployment.md, before:

---
id: deployment
title: Deployment
---

To build the static files of your website for production, run:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run build
```

Once it finishes, you should see the production build under the `build/` directory.

You can deploy your site to static site hosting services such as [ZEIT Now](https://zeit.co/now), [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/), and [Render](https://render.com/static-sites). Docusaurus sites are statically rendered so they work without JavaScript too!

## Deploying to ZEIT Now

Deploying your Docusaurus project to [ZEIT Now](https://zeit.co/now) will provide you with [various benefits](https://zeit.co/now) in the areas of performance and ease of use.

Most importantly, however, deploying a Docusaurus project only takes a couple seconds:

1. First, install their [command-line interface](https://zeit.co/download):

```bash
npm i -g now
```

2. Run a single command inside the root directory of your project:

```bash
now
```

**That's all.** Your docs will automatically be deployed.

Now you can connect your site to [GitHub](https://zeit.co/github) or [GitLab](https://zeit.co/gitlab) to automatically receive a new deployment every time you push a commit.

## Deploying to GitHub Pages

Docusaurus provides a easy way to publish to GitHub Pages.

### `docusaurus.config.js` settings

First, modify your `docusaurus.config.js` and add the required params:

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `organizationName` | The GitHub user or organization that owns the repository. If you are the owner, it is your GitHub username. In the case of Docusaurus, it is "_facebook_" which is the GitHub organization that owns Docusaurus. |
| `projectName` | The name of the GitHub repository. For example, the repository name for Docusaurus is "docusaurus", so the project name is "docusaurus". |
| `url` | URL for your GitHub Page's user/organization page. This is commonly https://_username_.github.io. |
| `baseUrl` | Base URL for your project. For projects hosted on GitHub pages, it follows the format "/_projectName_/". For https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus, `baseUrl` is `/docusaurus/`. |

In case you want to use your custom domain for GitHub Pages, create a `CNAME` file in the `static` directory. Anything within the `static` directory will be copied to the root of the `build` directory for deployment.

You may refer to GitHub Pages' documentation [User, Organization, and Project Pages](https://help.github.com/en/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages) for more details.

Example:

```jsx {3-6}
module.exports = {
  ...
  url: 'https://endiliey.github.io', // Your website URL
  baseUrl: '/',
  projectName: 'endiliey.github.io',
  organizationName: 'endiliey'
  ...
}
```

:::tip

By default, GitHub Pages runs published files through [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/). Since Jekyll will discard any files that begin with `_`, it is recommended that you disable Jekyll by adding an empty file named `.nojekyll` file to your `static` directory.

:::

### Environment settings

Specify the Git user as an environment variable.

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `GIT_USER` | The username for a GitHub account that has commit access to this repo. For your own repositories, this will usually be your GitHub username. The specified `GIT_USER` must have push access to the repository specified in the combination of `organizationName` and `projectName`. |

There are two more optional parameters that are set as environment variables:

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `USE_SSH` | Set to `true` to use SSH instead of the default HTTPS for the connection to the GitHub repo. |
| `CURRENT_BRANCH` | The branch that contains the latest docs changes that will be deployed. Usually, the branch will be `master`, but it could be any branch (default or otherwise) except for `gh-pages`. If nothing is set for this variable, then the current branch will be used. |

### Deploy

Finally, to deploy your site to GitHub Pages, run:

**Bash**

```bash
GIT_USER=<GITHUB_USERNAME> yarn deploy
```

**Windows**

```batch
cmd /C "set "GIT_USER=<GITHUB_USERNAME>" && yarn deploy"
```

<!--
TODO: Talk about deployment steps and different hosting options.

References:
- https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/deploying-and-hosting/

-->

## Deploying to Netlify

To deploy your Docusaurus 2 sites to [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/), first make sure the following options are properly configured:

```js {3-4}
// docusaurus.config.js
module.exports = {
  url: 'https://docusaurus-2.netlify.com', // url to your site with no trailing slash
  baseUrl: '/', // base directory of your site relative to your repo
};
```

Then, [create your site with Netlify](https://app.netlify.com/start).

While you set up the site, specify the build commands and directories as follows:

- build command: `npm run build`
- build directory: `build`

If you did not configure these build options, you may still go to "Site settings" -> "Build and deploy" after your site is created.

Once properly configured with the above options, your site should deploy and automatically redeploy upon merging to your deploy branch, which defaults to `master`.

:::important
Make sure to disable Netlify setting `Pretty URLs` to prevent lowercased URLs, unneccessary redirects and 404 errors.
:::

## Deploying to Render

Render offers [free static site hosting](https://render.com/docs/static-sites) with fully managed SSL, custom domains, a global CDN and continuous auto deploys from your Git repo. Deploy your app in just a few minutes by following these steps.

1. Create a new **Web Service** on Render, and give Render permission to access your Docusaurus repo.

2. Select the branch to deploy. The default is `master`.

3. Enter the following values during creation.

   | Field                 | Value         |
   | --------------------- | ------------- |
   | **Environment**       | `Static Site` |
   | **Build Command**     | `yarn build`  |
   | **Publish Directory** | `build`       |

That's it! Your app will be live on your Render URL as soon as the build finishes.

### Deplying to Travis CI

Continuous integration (CI) services are typically used to perform routine tasks whenever new commits are checked in to source control. These tasks can be any combination of running unit tests and integration tests, automating builds, publishing packages to NPM, and deploying changes to your website. All you need to do to automate deployment of your website is to invoke the `yarn deploy` script whenever your website is updated. The following section covers how to do just that using [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/), a popular continuous integration service provider.

1. Go to https://github.com/settings/tokens and generate a new [personal access token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)
1. Using your GitHub account, [add the Travis CI app](https://github.com/marketplace/travis-ci) to the repository you want to activate.
1. Open your Travis CI dashboard. The URL looks like https://travis-ci.com/USERNAME/REPO, and navigate to the `More options` > `Setting` > `Environment Variables` section of your repository.
1. Create a new environment variable named `GH_TOKEN` with your newly generated token as its value, then `GH_EMAIL` (your email address) and `GH_NAME` (your GitHub username).
1. Create a `.travis.yml` on the root of your repository with the following:

```yaml
# .travis.yml
language: node_js
node_js:
  - '10'
branches:
  only:
    - master
cache:
  yarn: true
script:
  - git config --global user.name "${GH_NAME}"
  - git config --global user.email "${GH_EMAIL}"
  - echo "machine github.com login ${GH_NAME} password ${GH_TOKEN}" > ~/.netrc
  - yarn && GIT_USER="${GH_NAME}" yarn deploy
```

Now, whenever a new commit lands in `master`, Travis CI will run your suite of tests and if everything passes, your website will be deployed via the `yarn deploy` script.

Commit message:

feat(v2): allow targeting deployment branch with environment variable (#2396)

website/docs/deployment.md, after:

---
id: deployment
title: Deployment
---

To build the static files of your website for production, run:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run build
```

Once it finishes, you should see the production build under the `build/` directory.

You can deploy your site to static site hosting services such as [ZEIT Now](https://zeit.co/now), [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/), and [Render](https://render.com/static-sites). Docusaurus sites are statically rendered so they work without JavaScript too!

## Deploying to ZEIT Now

Deploying your Docusaurus project to [ZEIT Now](https://zeit.co/now) will provide you with [various benefits](https://zeit.co/now) in the areas of performance and ease of use.

Most importantly, however, deploying a Docusaurus project only takes a couple seconds:

1. First, install their [command-line interface](https://zeit.co/download):

```bash
npm i -g now
```

2. Run a single command inside the root directory of your project:

```bash
now
```

**That's all.** Your docs will automatically be deployed.

Now you can connect your site to [GitHub](https://zeit.co/github) or [GitLab](https://zeit.co/gitlab) to automatically receive a new deployment every time you push a commit.

## Deploying to GitHub Pages

Docusaurus provides a easy way to publish to GitHub Pages.

### `docusaurus.config.js` settings

First, modify your `docusaurus.config.js` and add the required params:

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `organizationName` | The GitHub user or organization that owns the repository. If you are the owner, it is your GitHub username. In the case of Docusaurus, it is "_facebook_" which is the GitHub organization that owns Docusaurus. |
| `projectName` | The name of the GitHub repository. For example, the repository name for Docusaurus is "docusaurus", so the project name is "docusaurus". |
| `url` | URL for your GitHub Page's user/organization page. This is commonly https://_username_.github.io. |
| `baseUrl` | Base URL for your project. For projects hosted on GitHub pages, it follows the format "/_projectName_/". For https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus, `baseUrl` is `/docusaurus/`. |

In case you want to use your custom domain for GitHub Pages, create a `CNAME` file in the `static` directory. Anything within the `static` directory will be copied to the root of the `build` directory for deployment.

You may refer to GitHub Pages' documentation [User, Organization, and Project Pages](https://help.github.com/en/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages) for more details.

Example:

```jsx {3-6}
module.exports = {
  ...
  url: 'https://endiliey.github.io', // Your website URL
  baseUrl: '/',
  projectName: 'endiliey.github.io',
  organizationName: 'endiliey'
  ...
}
```

:::tip

By default, GitHub Pages runs published files through [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/). Since Jekyll will discard any files that begin with `_`, it is recommended that you disable Jekyll by adding an empty file named `.nojekyll` file to your `static` directory.

:::

### Environment settings

Specify the Git user as an environment variable.

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `GIT_USER` | The username for a GitHub account that has commit access to this repo. For your own repositories, this will usually be your GitHub username. The specified `GIT_USER` must have push access to the repository specified in the combination of `organizationName` and `projectName`. |

There are two more optional parameters that are set as environment variables:

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `USE_SSH` | Set to `true` to use SSH instead of the default HTTPS for the connection to the GitHub repo. |
| `DEPLOYMENT_BRANCH` | The branch that the website will be deployed to, defaults to `gh-pages` for normal repos and `master` for repository names ending in `github.io`. |
| `CURRENT_BRANCH` | The branch that contains the latest docs changes that will be deployed. Usually, the branch will be `master`, but it could be any branch (default or otherwise) except for `gh-pages`. If nothing is set for this variable, then the current branch will be used. |

### Deploy

Finally, to deploy your site to GitHub Pages, run:

**Bash**

```bash
GIT_USER=<GITHUB_USERNAME> yarn deploy
```

**Windows**

```batch
cmd /C "set "GIT_USER=<GITHUB_USERNAME>" && yarn deploy"
```

<!--
TODO: Talk about deployment steps and different hosting options.

References:
- https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/deploying-and-hosting/

-->

## Deploying to Netlify

To deploy your Docusaurus 2 sites to [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/), first make sure the following options are properly configured:

```js {3-4}
// docusaurus.config.js
module.exports = {
  url: 'https://docusaurus-2.netlify.com', // url to your site with no trailing slash
  baseUrl: '/', // base directory of your site relative to your repo
};
```

Then, [create your site with Netlify](https://app.netlify.com/start).

While you set up the site, specify the build commands and directories as follows:

- build command: `npm run build`
- build directory: `build`

If you did not configure these build options, you may still go to "Site settings" -> "Build and deploy" after your site is created.

Once properly configured with the above options, your site should deploy and automatically redeploy upon merging to your deploy branch, which defaults to `master`.

:::important
Make sure to disable Netlify setting `Pretty URLs` to prevent lowercased URLs, unneccessary redirects and 404 errors.
:::

## Deploying to Render

Render offers [free static site hosting](https://render.com/docs/static-sites) with fully managed SSL, custom domains, a global CDN and continuous auto deploys from your Git repo. Deploy your app in just a few minutes by following these steps.

1. Create a new **Web Service** on Render, and give Render permission to access your Docusaurus repo.

2. Select the branch to deploy. The default is `master`.

3. Enter the following values during creation.

   | Field                 | Value         |
   | --------------------- | ------------- |
   | **Environment**       | `Static Site` |
   | **Build Command**     | `yarn build`  |
   | **Publish Directory** | `build`       |

That's it! Your app will be live on your Render URL as soon as the build finishes.

### Deplying to Travis CI

Continuous integration (CI) services are typically used to perform routine tasks whenever new commits are checked in to source control. These tasks can be any combination of running unit tests and integration tests, automating builds, publishing packages to NPM, and deploying changes to your website. All you need to do to automate deployment of your website is to invoke the `yarn deploy` script whenever your website is updated. The following section covers how to do just that using [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/), a popular continuous integration service provider.

1. Go to https://github.com/settings/tokens and generate a new [personal access token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)
1. Using your GitHub account, [add the Travis CI app](https://github.com/marketplace/travis-ci) to the repository you want to activate.
1. Open your Travis CI dashboard. The URL looks like https://travis-ci.com/USERNAME/REPO, and navigate to the `More options` > `Setting` > `Environment Variables` section of your repository.
1. Create a new environment variable named `GH_TOKEN` with your newly generated token as its value, then `GH_EMAIL` (your email address) and `GH_NAME` (your GitHub username).
1. Create a `.travis.yml` on the root of your repository with the following:

```yaml
# .travis.yml
language: node_js
node_js:
  - '10'
branches:
  only:
    - master
cache:
  yarn: true
script:
  - git config --global user.name "${GH_NAME}"
  - git config --global user.email "${GH_EMAIL}"
  - echo "machine github.com login ${GH_NAME} password ${GH_TOKEN}" > ~/.netrc
  - yarn && GIT_USER="${GH_NAME}" yarn deploy
```

Now, whenever a new commit lands in `master`, Travis CI will run your suite of tests and if everything passes, your website will be deployed via the `yarn deploy` script.
