website/docs/team.md, before:

---
id: team
title: Team
---

## Meet the Docusaurus Team

### Alexey Pyltsyn

<br/>

![](https://github.com/lex111.png)

[@lex111 on Github](https://github.com/lex111)

### Fanny Vieira

<br/>

![](https://github.com/fanny.png)  
[@fanny on Github](https://github.com/fanny) · [@fannyvieiira on Twitter](https://twitter.com/fannyvieiira)

### Joel Marcey

<br/>

![](https://github.com/joelmarcey.png)  
[@joelmarcey on Github](https://github.com/joelmarcey) · [@joelmarcey on Twitter](https://twitter.com/joelmarcey)

### Yangshun Tay

<br/>

![](https://github.com/yangshun.png)  
[@yangshun on Github](https://github.com/yangshun) · [@yangshunz on Twitter](https://twitter.com/yangshunz)

## Honorary Alumni

### Endilie Yacop Sucipto

<br/>

![](https://github.com/endiliey.png?width=75&height=75)  
[@endiliey on Github](https://github.com/endiliey) · [@endiliey on Twitter ](https://twitter.com/endiliey)

### Wei Gao

<br/>

![](https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/2055384?s=460&u=09248b65169cb9909246dfa39b796deffc7bd251&v=4)  
[@wgao19 on Github](https://github.com/wgao19) · [@wgao19 on Twitter](https://twitter.com/wgao19)

## Acknowledgements

Docusaurus was originally created by Joel Marcey. Today, Docusaurus has a few hundred open source contributors. We’d like to recognize a few people who have made significant contributions to Docusaurus and its documentation in the past and have helped maintain them over the years:

- [Amy Lam](https://github.com/amyrlam)
- [Cheng Lou](https://github.com/chenglou)
- [Christine Abernathy](https://github.com/caabernathy)
- [Christopher Chedeau](https://github.com/vjeux)
- Elvis Wolcott
- [Eric Nakagawa](https://github.com/ericnakagawa)
- Fienny Angelina
- Frank Li
- [Héctor Ramos](https://github.com/hramos)
- Ramón Lamana
- Ricky Vetter
- [Sam Zhou](https://github.com/SamChou19815)

Commit message:

docs(v2): fix spelling of GitHub

website/docs/team.md, after:

---
id: team
title: Team
---

## Meet the Docusaurus Team

### Alexey Pyltsyn

<br/>

![](https://github.com/lex111.png)

[@lex111 on GitHub](https://github.com/lex111)

### Fanny Vieira

<br/>

![](https://github.com/fanny.png)  
[@fanny on GitHub](https://github.com/fanny) · [@fannyvieiira on Twitter](https://twitter.com/fannyvieiira)

### Joel Marcey

<br/>

![](https://github.com/joelmarcey.png)  
[@joelmarcey on GitHub](https://github.com/joelmarcey) · [@joelmarcey on Twitter](https://twitter.com/joelmarcey)

### Yangshun Tay

<br/>

![](https://github.com/yangshun.png)  
[@yangshun on GitHub](https://github.com/yangshun) · [@yangshunz on Twitter](https://twitter.com/yangshunz)

## Honorary Alumni

### Endilie Yacop Sucipto

<br/>

![](https://github.com/endiliey.png?width=75&height=75)  
[@endiliey on GitHub](https://github.com/endiliey) · [@endiliey on Twitter](https://twitter.com/endiliey)

### Wei Gao

<br/>

![](https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/2055384?s=460&u=09248b65169cb9909246dfa39b796deffc7bd251&v=4)  
[@wgao19 on GitHub](https://github.com/wgao19) · [@wgao19 on Twitter](https://twitter.com/wgao19)

## Acknowledgements

Docusaurus was originally created by Joel Marcey. Today, Docusaurus has a few hundred open source contributors. We’d like to recognize a few people who have made significant contributions to Docusaurus and its documentation in the past and have helped maintain them over the years:

- [Amy Lam](https://github.com/amyrlam)
- [Cheng Lou](https://github.com/chenglou)
- [Christine Abernathy](https://github.com/caabernathy)
- [Christopher Chedeau](https://github.com/vjeux)
- Elvis Wolcott
- [Eric Nakagawa](https://github.com/ericnakagawa)
- Fienny Angelina
- Frank Li
- [Héctor Ramos](https://github.com/hramos)
- Ramón Lamana
- Ricky Vetter
- [Sam Zhou](https://github.com/SamChou19815)
