packages/docusaurus-init/templates/bootstrap/docs/doc1.md, before:

---
id: doc1
title: Style Guide
sidebar_label: Style Guide
---

You can write content using [GitHub-flavored Markdown syntax](https://github.github.com/gfm/).

## Markdown Syntax

To serve as an example page when styling markdown based Docusaurus sites.

## Headers

# H1 - Create the best documentation

## H2 - Create the best documentation

### H3 - Create the best documentation

#### H4 - Create the best documentation

##### H5 - Create the best documentation

###### H6 - Create the best documentation

---

## Emphasis

Emphasis, aka italics, with *asterisks* or _underscores_.

Strong emphasis, aka bold, with **asterisks** or __underscores__.

Combined emphasis with **asterisks and _underscores_**.

Strikethrough uses two tildes. ~~Scratch this.~~

---

## Lists

1. First ordered list item
1. Another item
   - Unordered sub-list.
1. Actual numbers don't matter, just that it's a number
   1. Ordered sub-list
1. And another item.

* Unordered list can use asterisks

- Or minuses

+ Or pluses

---

## Links

[I'm an inline-style link](https://www.google.com/)

[I'm an inline-style link with title](https://www.google.com/ "Google's Homepage")

[I'm a reference-style link][arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]

[I'm a relative reference to a repository file](../blob/master/LICENSE)

[You can use numbers for reference-style link definitions][1]

Or leave it empty and use the [link text itself].

URLs and URLs in angle brackets will automatically get turned into links. http://www.example.com/ or <http://www.example.com/> and sometimes example.com (but not on GitHub, for example).

Some text to show that the reference links can follow later.

[arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]: https://www.mozilla.org/
[1]: http://slashdot.org/
[link text itself]: http://www.reddit.com/

---

## Images

Here's our logo (hover to see the title text):

Inline-style: ![alt text](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png 'Logo Title Text 1')

Reference-style: ![alt text][logo]

[logo]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png 'Logo Title Text 2'

---

## Code

```javascript
var s = 'JavaScript syntax highlighting';
alert(s);
```

```python
s = "Python syntax highlighting"
print(s)
```

```
No language indicated, so no syntax highlighting.
But let's throw in a <b>tag</b>.
```

```js {2}
function highlightMe() {
  console.log('This line can be highlighted!');
}
```

---

## Tables

Colons can be used to align columns.

| Tables        |      Are      |   Cool |
| ------------- | :-----------: | -----: |
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | \$1600 |
| col 2 is      |   centered    |   \$12 |
| zebra stripes |   are neat    |    \$1 |

There must be at least 3 dashes separating each header cell. The outer pipes (|) are optional, and you don't need to make the raw Markdown line up prettily. You can also use inline Markdown.

| Markdown | Less      | Pretty     |
| -------- | --------- | ---------- |
| _Still_  | `renders` | **nicely** |
| 1        | 2         | 3          |

---

## Blockquotes

> Blockquotes are very handy in email to emulate reply text. This line is part of the same quote.

Quote break.

> This is a very long line that will still be quoted properly when it wraps. Oh boy let's keep writing to make sure this is long enough to actually wrap for everyone. Oh, you can _put_ **Markdown** into a blockquote.

---

## Inline HTML

<dl>
  <dt>Definition list</dt>
  <dd>Is something people use sometimes.</dd>

  <dt>Markdown in HTML</dt>
  <dd>Does *not* work **very** well. Use HTML <em>tags</em>.</dd>
</dl>

---

## Line Breaks

Here's a line for us to start with.

This line is separated from the one above by two newlines, so it will be a _separate paragraph_.

This line is also a separate paragraph, but... This line is only separated by a single newline, so it's a separate line in the _same paragraph_.

---

## Admonitions

:::note

This is a note

:::

:::tip

This is a tip

:::

:::important

This is important

:::

:::caution

This is a caution

:::

:::warning

This is a warning

:::

Commit message:

feat(v2): support for adding relative images and handling broken image links (#3069)
* all relative path in image url

* throw error if file doesn't present

* better error

* add @docusaurus/core to deps

* fix test

packages/docusaurus-init/templates/bootstrap/docs/doc1.md, after:

---
id: doc1
title: Style Guide
sidebar_label: Style Guide
---

You can write content using [GitHub-flavored Markdown syntax](https://github.github.com/gfm/).

## Markdown Syntax

To serve as an example page when styling markdown based Docusaurus sites.

## Headers

# H1 - Create the best documentation

## H2 - Create the best documentation

### H3 - Create the best documentation

#### H4 - Create the best documentation

##### H5 - Create the best documentation

###### H6 - Create the best documentation

---

## Emphasis

Emphasis, aka italics, with *asterisks* or _underscores_.

Strong emphasis, aka bold, with **asterisks** or __underscores__.

Combined emphasis with **asterisks and _underscores_**.

Strikethrough uses two tildes. ~~Scratch this.~~

---

## Lists

1. First ordered list item
1. Another item
   - Unordered sub-list.
1. Actual numbers don't matter, just that it's a number
   1. Ordered sub-list
1. And another item.

* Unordered list can use asterisks

- Or minuses

+ Or pluses

---

## Links

[I'm an inline-style link](https://www.google.com/)

[I'm an inline-style link with title](https://www.google.com/ "Google's Homepage")

[I'm a reference-style link][arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]

[I'm a relative reference to a repository file](../blob/master/LICENSE)

[You can use numbers for reference-style link definitions][1]

Or leave it empty and use the [link text itself].

URLs and URLs in angle brackets will automatically get turned into links. http://www.example.com/ or <http://www.example.com/> and sometimes example.com (but not on GitHub, for example).

Some text to show that the reference links can follow later.

[arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]: https://www.mozilla.org/
[1]: http://slashdot.org/
[link text itself]: http://www.reddit.com/

---

## Images

Here's our logo (hover to see the title text):

Inline-style: ![alt text](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png 'Logo Title Text 1')

Reference-style: ![alt text][logo]

[logo]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png 'Logo Title Text 2'

Images from any folder can be used by providing path to file. Path should be relative to markdown file.

![img](../static/img/logo.svg)


---

## Code

```javascript
var s = 'JavaScript syntax highlighting';
alert(s);
```

```python
s = "Python syntax highlighting"
print(s)
```

```
No language indicated, so no syntax highlighting.
But let's throw in a <b>tag</b>.
```

```js {2}
function highlightMe() {
  console.log('This line can be highlighted!');
}
```

---

## Tables

Colons can be used to align columns.

| Tables        |      Are      |   Cool |
| ------------- | :-----------: | -----: |
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | \$1600 |
| col 2 is      |   centered    |   \$12 |
| zebra stripes |   are neat    |    \$1 |

There must be at least 3 dashes separating each header cell. The outer pipes (|) are optional, and you don't need to make the raw Markdown line up prettily. You can also use inline Markdown.

| Markdown | Less      | Pretty     |
| -------- | --------- | ---------- |
| _Still_  | `renders` | **nicely** |
| 1        | 2         | 3          |

---

## Blockquotes

> Blockquotes are very handy in email to emulate reply text. This line is part of the same quote.

Quote break.

> This is a very long line that will still be quoted properly when it wraps. Oh boy let's keep writing to make sure this is long enough to actually wrap for everyone. Oh, you can _put_ **Markdown** into a blockquote.

---

## Inline HTML

<dl>
  <dt>Definition list</dt>
  <dd>Is something people use sometimes.</dd>

  <dt>Markdown in HTML</dt>
  <dd>Does *not* work **very** well. Use HTML <em>tags</em>.</dd>
</dl>

---

## Line Breaks

Here's a line for us to start with.

This line is separated from the one above by two newlines, so it will be a _separate paragraph_.

This line is also a separate paragraph, but... This line is only separated by a single newline, so it's a separate line in the _same paragraph_.

---

## Admonitions

:::note

This is a note

:::

:::tip

This is a tip

:::

:::important

This is important

:::

:::caution

This is a caution

:::

:::warning

This is a warning

:::
